---
layout: post
title:  "Subtidal Now Open Source"
date:   2025-01-29 08:00:00 +0000
categories: blog open-source
---

# Subtidal

Hello

It's been a long while since my last post. A lot of stuff has changed since then, but I've finally gotten around to doing something I said I would previously!

I have open sourced my prototype for a message board, written in Go. It's called Subtidal.

I had a lot of fun building it and wanted to show it off at KCDC last year, but I decided against it for a few reasons.
You'll find it [here](https://github.com/sbrown17/subtidal-public).

I should note: you can use this, but it has no good authentication or anything else set up just yet. I've left it as is for people to see and maybe as a stepping point for someone who wants to see how recursive threads/posts can be done in Go.

If you have any questions about it feel free to reach out to me about it!

# Coming Soon

Progress remains slow on things, I generally split the little time I have between my family and side stuff.
Godot was interesting, but I found I wanted more control over the engine/my environment for games. I started making a prototype for a game in Rust with macroquad, which was cool, but ultimately I think I want to get even more close to C than that. So I'm toying with Odin as of the past few days.

Odin is a very interesting language with a lot of support baked in for graphics programming, etc. I look forward to learning more about it and maybe sharing some things with you all... Maybe :)

I hope you have a great day!
